1.	Prefer the active voice as much as possible.
2.	Don’t use the “ -- “ convention. Prefer a terminal and second sentence.
3.	Don’t use (ex. “sample”). Prefer either “, e.g. ,” or separate into another sentence, as appropriate.
4.	Prefer ### and #### to define sections over bullet points.
5.	Prefer concise terms instead of prolix ones, e.g., “to” instead of “in order to”. Avoid filler language like “not the least of which."
6.	Prefer one space after the period, not two.
7.	Avoid using the first person. Exceptions are articles that are guiding the user and showing empathy, such as the Get Started articles.
8.	Prefer “comprises” instead of “comprised of.”
9.	Prefer separation of sentences rather than parentheticals. If a concept is not a complete thought, remove it or rewrite it.
10. Put code in backticks, e.g., `ExampleMethod`.
11. Prefer *this* over *the following* when the item follows the text. The exceptions are lists, tables, and code blocks.
12. Avoid words like "thus," "thereby," "wherein," "heretofor," and so on. If your docs read like a patent application, it's time to edit.
13. Avoid ending sentences with "etc."
14. Prefer introducing your articles with text that explains what the reader is about to learn rather than the outcome of the article itself.
15. Prefer numbers over bullets when steps are done in order.
16. Avoid using "click here" or "here" for links. Make the links expressive so the reader knows what to do.
17. Avoid cascading NOTE, TIP, WARNING, and IMPORTANT blocks. The blocks should be used when the information is outside of the context flow of a paragraph or you want to otherwise draw the reader's attention.
18. Don't use anchor tags for H2s. They are automatically generated by OPS.
19. Don't enclose examples in parantheses. I.e. and e.g. should be wrapped in commas, e.g., this sentence, i.e., this string of words.
