---
title: Test a bot | Microsoft Docs
description: Testing and debugging your Conversation Designer bot.
author: vkannan
manager: rstand
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: bot-framework
ms.date: 07/04/2017
ROBOTS: NoIndex, NoFollow
---

# Test your Conversation Designer bot
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Conversation Designer is not available to all customers yet. More details on
> availability of Conversation Designer will come later this year.

The Conversation Designer offer useful debugging tools through several different Output window (located at the bottom of the screen). You can start testing and debugging by clicking on the **Test** button found on the upper right corner of the window. 

## Validation Errors
There are several conditions under which validation errors occur. For example: 
- you are missing a response to the trigger 
- partially complete information on flow
- missing triggers and code behind for conditional response template, decision and process states
- a recursive or infinite loop is detected in the template references 
- your dialog has an orphan state that is not connected to the flow.
- you added a task, but the trigger or action is missing 


## JavaScript Output
You can attach a script to the execution of a response to provide additional functionality. If there is an error in the script, it will be displayed here. You can add `console.log()` or `error.log()` or `debug.log()` to your bot's business logic, which will list messages in the output window. For example:

``` javascript
export function Respond_beforeResponse = function(context) {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(context));
}
```

## Runtime Output
Errors or exceptions generated by the runtime are displayed here. For example, if your bot is failing to respond, look at the output to investigate what caused the exception or error. If there are too many messages in the output window, you can click **Clear all**, and then test your bot again by sending the bot a message to see the error details. 

 ## Next step
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Task triggers](conversation-designer-tasks.md)
