---
title: The Context object | Microsoft Docs
description: Description of the structure and function of the Context object
author: v-stbee
ms.author: v-stbee
manager: kamrani
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: bot-framework
ms.date: 02/15/2018
monikerRange: 'azure-bot-service-4.0'
---

# The context object
The context object provides all the information about the conversation, its state, channels, user, request, response, and intents needed to process the activity. When your bot receives an activity, it calls bot adapter's _process activity_ method. This method creates a _context_ object, includes the activity in the context's request property, and processes the context object using the middleware and application logic you have specified. When receiving incoming activities, provide a receive callback method in the adapter's _process activity_ method to connect your bot to your business logic.

## Notable properties

The _adapter_ property contains a reference to your bot's adapter. Your application logic and middleware can use this property to access your adapter when processing an activity. For example, you can use the adapter property to continue existing conversation. 

The _conversation reference_ property identifies the conversastion, the bot, and the user participating in it among other things. You can use a conversation reference to send _proactive messages_ to the user.
<!--TODO: See [Proactive messaging]-->

The _request_ property contains the incoming activity from the user. The activity often contains a message from the user, but it can also represent the start or end of a conversation and other types of information. 
<!--TODO: Add some task-specific info.-->
<!--TODO: See [activities overview]() for information about activities in general.-->

The _responses_ property collects the outgoing activities generated by your bot's middleware and your application logic. 

<!-- TODO: Clarify what this means: Middleware or your application logic might check whether any responses have been generated to trigger some default behavior.-->

The context's _state_ property contains state information. For more information, see [bot state](#bot-state).

<!--NOTE:-->

If you use intent recognizer middleware, the context's _top intent_ property will contain the highest-scoring intent, as determined by the recognizer your bot is using.

## Notable methods

If you use intent recognizer middleware, use the context's _if intent_ method to check whether the context's top intent matches a specific value.

Use the context's _reply_ method to queue an activity as a response to the user on the current conversation.

## Bot state

The bot itself is stateless. The context object exists only during the pipeline processing of the specific activity for which it was created. Conversation and user state can be stored in the context's _state_ property, and the adapter can save and restore state using state manager middleware paired with a storage object. (Without using some process to save and restore state, the context's state is discarded at the end of each activity processing cycle.) Quantities saved in state are dynamically typed.

The State property contains two subfields: Conversation (a **ConversationState** object) and User (a **UserState** object). Each of these, as well as the State property itself, can be treated as an indexed container, where the index is a string constituting the name of a name/value pair:

# [C#](#tab/csharp)
```csharp
context.State.ConversationProperties["desiredLocation"] = "Hawaii";
context.State.ConversationProperties["desiredYear"] = 2019;
context.State.ConversationProperties["payInAdvance"] = true;

context.State.UserProperties["name"] = "Bethany";
context.State.UserProperties["age"] = 23;
context.State.UserProperties["GPA"] = 3.76;
```
# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)
```javascript
context.State.ConversationProperties["desiredLocation"] = "Hawaii";
```
---

