---
title: Add authentication to a bot in Bot Framework SDK
description: Learn how to add user's authentication to your bot using Azure authentication.
author: JonathanFingold
ms.author: iawilt
manager: shellyha
ms.reviewer: micchow
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: azure-ai-bot-service
ms.date: 11/09/2022
ms.custom:
  - abs-meta-21q1
  - evergreen
monikerRange: 'azure-bot-service-4.0'
---

# Add authentication to a bot

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-v4](../includes/applies-to-v4-current.md)]

The Azure AI Bot Service v4 SDK facilitates the development of bots that can access online resources that require user authentication. Your bot doesn't need to manage authentication tokens because Azure does it for you using OAuth 2.0 to generate a token based on each user's credentials. Your bot uses the token generated by Azure to access those resources. In this way, the user doesn't have to provide ID and password to the bot to access a secured resource but only to a trusted identity provider.

For an overview of how the Bot Framework handles this kind of authentication, see [User authentication](bot-builder-concept-authentication.md).

This article references two samples. One shows how to obtain an authentication token. The other is more complex and shows how to access [Microsoft Graph](/en-us/graph) on behalf of the user. In both cases, you can use Azure AD v1 or v2 as an identity provider to obtain an OAuth token for the bot.
This article covers how to:

- Create an Azure Bot resource
- Create the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider
- Register the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider with the bot
- Prepare the bot code

Once you finish this article, you'll have a bot that can respond to a few simple tasks. In the Microsoft Graph example, you can send an email, display who you are, and check recent emails. You don't need to publish the bot to test the OAuth features; however, the bot will need valid Azure app ID and password.

[!INCLUDE [java-python-sunset-alert](../includes/java-python-sunset-alert.md)]

## Web Chat and Direct Line considerations

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You need to use Direct Line with enhanced authentication enabled to mitigate security risks when connecting to a bot using the Web Chat control. For more information, see [Direct Line enhanced authentication](bot-builder-security-enhanced.md).

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge of [bot basics][concept-basics], [managing state][concept-state], the [dialogs library][concept-dialogs], and
how to [implement sequential conversation flow][simple-dialog], and how to [reuse dialogs][component-dialogs].
- Knowledge of Azure and OAuth 2.0 development.
- Visual Studio 2017 or later for .NET.
- Node.js for JavaScript.
- Python [3.8+](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-383/) for Python.
- One of the samples listed below.

  | Sample | BotBuilder version | Demonstrates |
  |:---|:---:|:---|
  | **Authentication** in [**C#**][cs-auth-sample] or [**JavaScript**][js-auth-sample] or [**Java**][java-auth-sample] or  [**Python**][python-auth-sample] | v4 | OAuthCard support |
  | **Authentication for Microsoft Graph** in [**C#**][cs-msgraph-sample] or [**JavaScript**][js-msgraph-sample] or [**Java**][java-msgraph-sample] or [**Python**][python-msgraph-sample]| v4 |  Microsoft Graph API support with OAuth 2.0 |
  | **Authentication for Microsoft Teams** in [**C#**][cs-teams-auth-sample] or [**JavaScript**][js-teams-auth-sample] or [**Java**][java-teams-auth-sample] or [**Python**][python-teams-auth-sample]| v4 |  Microsoft Graph API support with OAuth 2.0 |

  To run the samples referenced in this article, you need:

  - An Microsoft Entra ID application with which to register a bot resource in Azure. This application allows the bot to access an external secured resource, such as Microsoft Graph. It also allows the user to communicate with the bot via several channels such as Web Chat.
  - A separate Microsoft Entra ID application to function as the identity provider. This application provides the credentials needed to establish an OAuth connection between the bot and the secured resource. Notice that this article uses Active Directory as an identity provider. Many other providers are also supported.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Whenever you register a bot in Azure, it gets assigned an Microsoft Entra ID application. However, this application secures channel-to-bot access. You need an additional Microsoft Entra ID application for each external secured resource you want the bot to access on behalf of the user.

[!INCLUDE [azure bot resource](../includes/azure-bot-resource/azure-bot-resource.md)]

## Microsoft Entra ID identity service

The Microsoft Entra ID is a cloud identity service that allows you to build applications that securely sign in users using industry standard protocols like OAuth 2.0.

You can use one of these two identity services:

1. Microsoft Entra ID developer platform (v1.0). Also known as the **Azure AD v1** endpoint, which allows you to build apps that securely sign in users with a Microsoft work or school account. For more information, see the [Microsoft Entra ID for developers (v1.0) overview](/azure/active-directory/azuread-dev/v1-overview).
1. Microsoft identity platform (v2.0). Also known as the **Microsoft Entra ID** endpoint, which is an evolution of the Azure AD platform (v1.0). It allows you to build applications that sign in to all Microsoft identity providers and get tokens to call Microsoft APIs, such as Microsoft Graph, or other APIs that developers have built. For more information, see the [Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) overview](/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-appmodel-v2-overview).

For information about the differences between the v1 and v2 endpoints, see [Why update to Microsoft identity platform (v2.0)?](/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-v2-compare). For complete information, see [Microsoft identity platform (formerly Microsoft Entra ID for developers)](/azure/active-directory/develop/).

### Create the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider

This section shows how to create an Microsoft Entra ID identity provider that uses OAuth 2.0 to authenticate the bot. You can use Azure AD v1 or Microsoft Entra ID endpoints.

> [!TIP]
> You'll need to create and register the Microsoft Entra ID application in a tenant in which you can consent to delegate permissions requested by an application.

1. Open the [Microsoft Entra ID][azure-aad-blade] panel in the Azure portal.
    If you aren't in the correct tenant, select **Switch directory** to switch to the correct tenant. (For information on how to create a tenant, see [Access the portal and create a tenant](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-access-create-new-tenant).)
1. Open the **App registrations** panel.
1. In the **App registrations** panel, select **New registration**.
1. Fill in the required fields and create the app registration.

   1. Name your application.
   1. Select the **Supported account types** for your application. (Any of these options will work with this sample.)
   1. For the **Redirect URI**, select **Web** and set the URL to one of the [supported OAuth redirect URLs](../ref-oauth-redirect-urls.md).

   1. Select **Register**.

      - Once it's created, Azure displays the **Overview** page for the app.
      - Record the **Application (client) ID** value. You'll use this value later as the _client ID_ when you create the connection string and register the Microsoft Entra ID provider with the bot registration.
      - Record the **Directory (tenant) ID** value. You'll use this value to register this provider application with your bot.

1. In the navigation pane, select **Certificates & secrets** to create a secret for your application.

   1. Under **Client secrets**, select **New client secret**.
   1. Add a description to identify this secret from others you might need to create for this app, such as `bot login`.
   1. For **Expires**, choose a length of time after which the secret will expire.
   1. Select **Add**.
   1. Before leaving **Certificates & secrets**, record the secret. You'll use this value later as the _client secret_ when you register your Microsoft Entra ID application with your bot.

1. In the navigation pane, select **API permissions** to open the **API permissions** panel. It's a best practice to explicitly set the API permissions for the app.

   1. Select **Add a permission** to show the **Request API permissions** pane.
   1. For this sample, select **Microsoft APIs** and **Microsoft Graph**.
   1. Choose **Delegated permissions** and make sure the permissions you need are selected. This sample requires theses permissions.

      > [!NOTE]
      > Any permission marked as **ADMIN CONSENT REQUIRED** will require both a user and a tenant admin to login, so for your bot tend to stay away from these.

      - **openid**
      - **profile**
      - **Mail.Read**
      - **Mail.Send**
      - **User.Read**
      - **User.ReadBasic.All**

   1. Select **Add permissions**. (The first time a user accesses this app through the bot, they'll need to grant consent.)

You now have an Microsoft Entra ID application configured.

> [!NOTE]
> You'll assign the **Application (client) ID** and the **Client secret**, when you create the connection string and register the identity provider with the bot registration. See next section.

### Register the Microsoft Entra ID identity provider with the bot

The next step is to register your identity provider with your bot.

#### [Microsoft Entra ID](#tab/aadv2)

1. Open your bot's Azure Bot resource page in the [Azure portal][azure-portal].
1. Select **Settings**.
1. Under **OAuth Connection Settings** near the bottom of the page, select **Add Setting**.
1. Fill in the form as follows:

    1. **Name**. Enter a name for your connection. You'll use it in your bot code.
    1. **Service Provider**. Select **Microsoft Entra ID** to display Microsoft Entra ID-specific fields.
    1. **Client id**. Enter the application (client) ID you recorded for your Microsoft Entra ID identity provider.
    1. **Client secret**. Enter the secret you recorded for your Microsoft Entra ID identity provider.
  
        > [!TIP]
        > If you want to use certificates, you can select the **AAD v2 with Certificates** provider.
        > You'll need to give Bot Service Token Store (appid: 00001111-aaaa-2222-bbbb-3333cccc4444) the permission to get the certificate.

    1. **Token Exchange URL**. Leave it blank because it's used for SSO in Microsoft Entra ID only.
    1. **Tenant ID**. Enter the **directory (tenant) ID** that you recorded earlier for your Microsoft Entra ID app or **common** depending on the supported account types selected when you created the Azure DD app. To decide which value to assign, follow these criteria:

        - When creating the Microsoft Entra ID app, if you selected **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Microsoft only - Single tenant)**, enter the tenant ID you recorded earlier for the Microsoft Entra ID app.
        - However, if you selected **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID directory - Multi tenant and personal Microsoft accounts e.g. Xbox, Outlook.com)** or **Accounts in any organizational directory(Microsoft Entra ID directory - Multi tenant)**, enter `common` instead of a tenant ID. Otherwise, the Microsoft Entra ID app will verify through the tenant whose ID was selected and exclude personal Microsoft accounts.

        This will be the tenant associated with the users who can be authenticated. For more information, see [Tenancy in Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/active-directory/develop/single-and-multi-tenant-apps).

    1. For **Scopes**, enter the names of the permission you chose from the application registration. For testing purposes, you can just enter:
       `openid profile`.

        > [!NOTE]
        > For Microsoft Entra ID, **Scopes** field takes a case-sensitive, space-separated list of values.

1. Select **Save**.

#### [Azure AD v1](#tab/aadv1)

1. Navigate to your bot's resource page on the [Azure portal][azure-portal].
1. Select **Settings**.
1. Under **OAuth Connection Settings** near the bottom of the page, select **Add Setting**.
1. Fill in the form as follows:

    1. For **Name**, enter a name for your connection. You'll use this name in your bot code.
    1. For **Service Provider**, select **Microsoft Entra ID**. Once you select this, the Microsoft Entra ID-specific fields will be displayed.
    1. For **Client id**, enter the application (client) ID that you recorded for your Azure AD v1 application.
    1. For **Client secret**, enter the secret that you created to grant the bot access to the Microsoft Entra ID app.
    1. For **Grant Type**, enter `authorization_code`.
    1. For **Login URL**, enter `https://login.microsoftonline.com`.
    1. For **Tenant ID**, enter the **directory (tenant) ID** that you recorded earlier for your Microsoft Entra ID app or **common** depending on the supported account types selected when you created the ADD app. To decide which value to assign, follow these criteria:

        - When creating the Microsoft Entra ID app, if you selected **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Microsoft only - Single tenant)**, enter the tenant ID you recorded earlier for the Microsoft Entra ID app.
        - However, if you selected **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID directory - Multi tenant and personal Microsoft accounts e.g. Xbox, Outlook.com)** or **Accounts in any organizational directory(Microsoft Entra ID directory - Multi tenant)**, enter `common` instead of a tenant ID. Otherwise, the Microsoft Entra ID app will verify through the tenant whose ID was selected and exclude personal MS accounts.

       This will be the tenant associated with the users who can be authenticated. For more information, see [Tenancy in Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/active-directory/develop/single-and-multi-tenant-apps).

    1. For **Resource URL**, enter `https://graph.microsoft.com/`.
    1. Leave **Scopes** blank.

1. Select **Save**.

---

> [!NOTE]
> These values enable your application to access Office 365 data via the Microsoft Graph API.
> Also, the **Token Exchange URL** should be left blank because it's used for SSO in Microsoft Entra ID only.

### Test your connection

1. Select on the connection entry to open the connection you created.
1. Select **Test Connection** at the top of the **Service Provider Connection Setting** pane.
1. The first time, this should open a new browser tab listing the permissions your app is requesting and prompt you to accept.
1. Select **Accept**.
1. This should then redirect you to a **Test Connection to \<your-connection-name> Succeeded** page.

You can now use this connection name in your bot code to retrieve user tokens.

## Prepare the bot code

You'll need your bot's app ID and password to complete this process.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

1. Clone from the GitHub repository the sample you want to work with: [**Bot authentication**][cs-auth-sample] or [**Bot authentication for Microsoft Graph**][cs-msgraph-sample].
1. Update **appsettings.json**:

    - Set `ConnectionName` to the name of the OAuth connection setting you added to your bot.
    - Set `MicrosoftAppId` and `MicrosoftAppPassword` to your bot's app ID and app secret.

      Depending on the characters in your bot secret, you may need to XML escape the password. For example, any ampersands (&) will need to be encoded as `&amp;`.
      
    [!code-json[appsettings](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/appsettings.json)]
    
    To use OAuth in bot with data-residency in public cloud, you must add the following configurations in your appsettings
    ```json
    "OAuthUrl": "<Regional-OAuth-Uri>",
    "ToChannelFromBotOAuthScope": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "ToChannelFromBotLoginUrlTemplate": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "PublicAzureChannel": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "ToBotFromChannelOpenIdMetadataUrl": "https://login.botframework.com/v1/.well-known/openidconfiguration",
    "ToBotFromEmulatorOpenIdMetadataUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    "ToBotFromChannelTokenIssuer": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "ToChannelFromBotLoginUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/botframework.com",
    ```
    
    Where _\<Regional-OAuth-Url>_ is one of the following URIs:
    
    |URI|Description|
    |:-|:-|
    |`https://europe.api.botframework.com`|For public-cloud bots with data residency in Europe.|
    |`https://unitedstates.api.botframework.com`|For public-cloud bots with data residency in the United States.|
    |`https://india.api.botframework.com`|For public-cloud bots with data residency in India.|

1. Update **Startup.cs**:

    To use OAuth in _non-public Azure clouds_, like the government cloud, you must add the following code in the **Startup.cs** file.

    ```csharp
    string uri = "<uri-to-use>";
    MicrosoftAppCredentials.TrustServiceUrl(uri);
    OAuthClientConfig.OAuthEndpoint = uri;

    ```

    Where _\<uri-to-use>_ is one of the following URIs:

    |URI|Description|
    |:-|:-|
    |`https://api.botframework.azure.us`|For United States government-cloud bots without data residency.|
    |`https://api.botframework.com`|For public-cloud bots without data residency. This is the default URI and doesn't require a change to **Startup.cs**.|

### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

1. Clone from the GitHub repository you want to work with: [**Bot authentication**][js-auth-sample] or [**Bot authentication for Microsoft Graph**][js-msgraph-sample].
1. Update **.env**:

    - Set `connectionName` to the name of the OAuth connection setting you added to your bot.
    - Set `MicrosoftAppId` and `MicrosoftAppPassword` values to your bot's app ID and app secret.

      Depending on the characters in your bot secret, you may need to XML escape the password. For example, any ampersands (&) will need to be encoded as `&amp;`.

    [!code-ini[.env](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/.env)]

### [Java](#tab/java)

1. Clone from the GitHub repository the sample you want to work with: [**Bot authentication**][java-auth-sample] or [**Bot authentication for Microsoft Graph**][java-msgraph-sample].
1. Update **application.properties**:

    - Set `ConnectionName` to the name of the OAuth connection setting you added to your bot.
    - Set `MicrosoftAppId` and `MicrosoftAppPassword` to your bot's app ID and app secret.

    [!code-ini[application.properties](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/resources/application.properties)]

### [Python](#tab/python)

1. Clone the GitHub repository the sample you want to work with: [**Bot authentication**][python-auth-sample] or [**Bot authentication for Microsoft Graph**][python-msgraph-sample].
1. Update **config.py**:

    - Set `ConnectionName` to the name of the OAuth connection setting you added to your bot.
    - Set `MicrosoftAppId` and `MicrosoftAppPassword` to your bot's app ID and app secret.

      Depending on the characters in your bot secret, you may need to XML escape the password. For example, any ampersands (&) will need to be encoded as `&amp;`.

    [!code-python[config](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/config.py)]

---

To obtain the **Microsoft app ID** and **Microsoft app password** values, see [Get registration password](~/bot-service-manage-settings.md#bot-identity-information).

> [!NOTE]
> You could now publish this bot code to your Azure subscription (right-select on the project and choose **Publish**), but it's not necessary for this article. You would need to set up a publishing configuration that uses the application and hosting plan that you used when configuration the bot in the Azure portal.

## Test the bot using the Emulator

If you haven't done so already, install the [Bot Framework Emulator](https://github.com/microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator/blob/master/README.md). See also [Debug with the Emulator](../bot-service-debug-emulator.md).

In order for the bot sample login to work you must configure the Emulator
as shown in [Configure the Emulator for authentication](../bot-service-debug-emulator.md#configure-the-emulator-for-authentication).

### Testing

After you've configured the authentication mechanism, you can perform the actual bot sample testing.

> [!NOTE]
> You may be asked to enter a _magic code_, because the way the bot sample is implemented. This magic code is part of the [RFC#7636](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636#page-5) and is there to add an extra security element. By removing the magic code, there's an increased security risk. This can be mitigated using Direct Line with enhanced authentication enabled. For more information, see [Bot Framework enhanced authentication](bot-builder-security-enhanced.md).

1. Run the bot sample locally on your machine.
1. Start the Emulator.
1. You'll need to provide your bot's app ID and password when you connect to the bot.
    - You get the app ID and the password from the Azure app registration. These are the same values you assigned to the bot app in the `appsettings.json` or `.env` file. In the Emulator, you assign these values in the configuration file or the first time you connect to the bot.
    - If you needed to XML-escape the password in your bot code, you also need to do so here.
1. Type `help` to see a list of available commands for the bot, and test the authentication features.
1. Once you've signed in, you don't need to provide your credentials again until you sign out.
1. To sign out, and cancel your authentication, type `logout`.

> [!NOTE]
> Bot authentication requires use of the Bot Connector service. The service accesses information from your Azure Bot resource.

## Authentication example

In the **Bot authentication** sample, the dialog is designed to retrieve the user token after the user is logged in.

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/auth-bot-test.png" alt-text="Sample conversation with the authentication sample bot.":::

## Authentication for Microsoft Graph example

In the **Bot authentication for Microsoft Graph** sample, the dialog is designed to accept a limited set of commands after the user is logged in.

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/msgraph-bot-test.png" alt-text="Sample conversation with the Microsoft Graph authentication sample bot.":::

---

## Additional information

When a user asks the bot to do something that requires the bot to have the user logged in, the bot can use an `OAuthPrompt` to initiate retrieving a token for a given connection. The `OAuthPrompt` creates a token retrieval flow that consists of:

1. Checking to see if the Azure AI Bot Service already has a token for the current user and connection. If there's a token, the token is returned.
1. If Azure AI Bot Service doesn't have a cached token, an `OAuthCard` is created which is a sign-in button the user can select on.
1. After the user selects on the `OAuthCard` sign-in button, Azure AI Bot Service will either send the bot the user's token directly or present the user with a 6-digit authentication code to enter in the chat window.
1. If the user is presented with an authentication code, the bot then exchanges this authentication code for the user's token.

The following sections describe how the sample implements some common authentication tasks.

### Use an OAuth prompt to sign the user in and get a token

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/architecture.png" alt-text="Architecture diagram for the C# sample.":::

**Dialogs\MainDialog.cs**

Add an OAuth prompt to **MainDialog** in its constructor. Here, the value for the connection name was retrieved from the **appsettings.json** file.

[!code-csharp[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/Dialogs/MainDialog.cs?range=23-31)]

Within a dialog step, use `BeginDialogAsync` to start the OAuth prompt, which asks the user to sign in.

- If the user is already signed in, this will generate a token response event, without prompting the user.
- Otherwise, this will prompt the user to sign in. The Azure AI Bot Service sends the token response event after the user attempts to sign in.

[!code-csharp[Use the OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/Dialogs/MainDialog.cs?range=49)]

Within the following dialog step, check for the presence of a token in the result from the previous step. If it's not null, the user successfully signed in.

[!code-csharp[Get the OAuthPrompt result](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/Dialogs/MainDialog.cs?range=54-56)]

### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/architecture-js.png" alt-text="Architecture diagram for the JavaScript sample.":::

**dialogs/mainDialog.js**

Add an OAuth prompt to **MainDialog** in its constructor. Here, the value for the connection name was retrieved from the **.env** file.

[!code-javascript[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/mainDialog.js?range=24-29)]

Within a dialog step, use `beginDialog` to start the OAuth prompt, which asks the user to sign in.

- If the user is already signed in, this will generate a token response event, without prompting the user.
- Otherwise, this will prompt the user to sign in. The Azure AI Bot Service sends the token response event after the user attempts to sign in.

[!code-javascript[Use OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/mainDialog.js?range=57)]

Within the following dialog step, check for the presence of a token in the result from the previous step. If it's not null, the user successfully signed in.

[!code-javascript[Get OAuthPrompt result](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/mainDialog.js?range=62-63)]

### [Java](#tab/java)

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/architecture-java.png" alt-text="Architecture diagram for the Java sample.":::

**MainDialog.java**

Add an OAuth prompt to **MainDialog** in its constructor. Here, the value for the connection name was retrieved from the **application.properties** file.

[!code-java[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/java/com/microsoft/bot/sample/authentication/MainDialog.java?range=26-32)]

Within a dialog step, use `beginDialog` to start the OAuth prompt, which asks the user to sign in.

- If the user is already signed in, this will generate a token response event, without prompting the user.
- Otherwise, this will prompt the user to sign in. The Azure AI Bot Service sends the token response event after the user attempts to sign in.

[!code-java[Use the OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/java/com/microsoft/bot/sample/authentication/MainDialog.java?range=86)]

Within the following dialog step, check for the presence of a token in the result from the previous step. If it's not null, the user successfully signed in.

[!code-java[Get the OAuthPrompt result](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/java/com/microsoft/bot/sample/authentication/MainDialog.java?range=54-56)]

### [Python](#tab/python)

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-auth/architecture-python.png" alt-text="Architecture diagram for the Python sample.":::

**dialogs/main_dialog.py**

Add an OAuth prompt to **MainDialog** in its constructor. Here, the value for the connection name was retrieved from the **config.py** file.

[!code-python[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/main_dialog.py?range=34-44)]

Within a dialog step, use `begin_dialog` to start the OAuth prompt, which asks the user to sign in.

- If the user is already signed in, this will generate a token response event, without prompting the user.
- Otherwise, this will prompt the user to sign in. The Azure AI Bot Service sends the token response event after the user attempts to sign in.

[!code-python[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/main_dialog.py?range=49)]

Within the following dialog step, check for the presence of a token in the result from the previous step. If it's not null, the user successfully signed in.

[!code-python[Add OAuthPrompt](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/main_dialog.py?range=54-65)]

---

### Wait for a TokenResponseEvent

When you start an OAuth prompt, it waits for a token response event, from which it will retrieve the user's token.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

**Bots\AuthBot.cs**

**AuthBot** derives from `ActivityHandler` and explicitly handles token response event activities. Here, we continue the active dialog, which allows the OAuth prompt to process the event and retrieve the token.

[!code-csharp[OnTokenResponseEventAsync](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/Bots/AuthBot.cs?range=32-38)]

### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

**bots/authBot.js**

**AuthBot** derives from `ActivityHandler` and explicitly handles token response event activities. Here, we continue the active dialog, which allows the OAuth prompt to process the event and retrieve the token.

[!code-javascript[onTokenResponseEvent](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/bots/authBot.js?range=29-31)]

### [Java](#tab/java)

**AuthBot.java**

**AuthBot** derives from `Dialog` and explicitly handles token response event activities. Here, we continue the active dialog, which allows the OAuth prompt to process the event and retrieve the token.

[!code-java[OnTokenResponseEvent](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/java/com/microsoft/bot/sample/authentication/AuthBot.java?range=44-50)]

### [Python](#tab/python)

**bots/auth_bot.py**

**AuthBot** explicitly handles token response event activities. Here, we continue the active dialog, which allows the OAuth prompt to process the event and retrieve the token.

[!code-python[on_token_response_event](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/bots/auth_bot.py?range=38-44)]

---

### Log the user out

It's best practice to let users explicitly sign out, instead of relying on the connection to time out.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

**Dialogs\LogoutDialog.cs**

[!code-csharp[Allow sign out](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication/Dialogs/LogoutDialog.cs?range=45-63&highlight=11)]

### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

**dialogs/logoutDialog.js**

[!code-javascript[Allow sign out](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/logoutDialog.js?range=31-43&highlight=8)]

### [Java](#tab/java)

**LogoutDialog.java**

[!code-java[Allow sign out](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication/src/main/java/com/microsoft/bot/sample/authentication/LogoutDialog.java?range=49-67&highlight=8-13)]
### [Python](#tab/python)

**dialogs/logout_dialog.py**

[!code-python[allow sign out](~/../botbuilder-samples/samples/python/18.bot-authentication/dialogs/logout_dialog.py?range=27-34&highlight=6)]

---

### Adding Teams Authentication

OAuth is handled differently in Teams than in other channels. The Teams Authentication Bot sample (in [C#][cs-teams-auth-sample], [JavaScript][js-teams-auth-sample], [Java][java-teams-auth-sample], or [Python][python-teams-auth-sample]) demonstrates how to properly implement authentication for Teams.


### Further reading

- [Bot Framework additional resources](../bot-service-resources-links-help.md) includes links for additional support.
- The [Bot Framework SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder) repo has more information about repos, samples, tools, and specs associated with the Bot Builder SDK.

[azure-portal]: https://ms.portal.azure.com
[azure-aad-blade]: https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/ActiveDirectoryMenuBlade/Overview

[concept-basics]: bot-builder-basics.md
[concept-state]: bot-builder-concept-state.md
[concept-dialogs]: bot-builder-concept-dialog.md

[simple-dialog]: bot-builder-dialog-manage-conversation-flow.md
[component-dialogs]: bot-builder-compositcontrol.md

[cs-auth-sample]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/18.bot-authentication
[js-auth-sample]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/blob/main/samples/javascript_nodejs/18.bot-authentication
[java-auth-sample]: https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/main/samples/java_springboot/18.bot-authentication
[python-auth-sample]: https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/python/18.bot-authentication

[cs-msgraph-sample]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/24.bot-authentication-msgraph
[js-msgraph-sample]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/javascript_nodejs/24.bot-authentication-msgraph
[java-msgraph-sample]: https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/main/samples/java_springboot/24.bot-authentication-msgraph
[python-msgraph-sample]: https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/main/samples/python/24.bot-authentication-msgraph

[cs-teams-auth-sample]:https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/csharp
[js-teams-auth-sample]:https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation-sso-quickstart/js
[java-teams-auth-sample]:https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/java
[python-teams-auth-sample]:https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/python

[teams-activity-feed]:/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/activity-feed
