---
title: Monitoring Azure AI Bot Service
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure AI Bot Service.
ms.service: bot-service
author: JonathanFingold
ms.author: iawilt
manager: shellyha
ms.reviewer: micchow
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/10/2022
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
---

# Monitoring Azure AI Bot Service

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure AI Bot Service. Azure AI Bot Service uses [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/overview). If you're unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource).

## Monitoring data

Azure AI Bot Service collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources).

See [Monitoring *Azure AI Bot Service* data reference](monitor-bot-service-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure AI Bot Service.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for *Azure AI Bot Service* are listed in [Azure AI Bot Service monitoring data reference](monitor-bot-service-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for *Azure AI Bot Service* with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool.

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure AI Bot Service, see [Monitoring *Azure AI Bot Service* data reference metrics](monitor-bot-service-reference.md#metrics).

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema).

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure AI Bot Service, see [Monitoring Azure AI Bot Service data reference](monitor-bot-service-reference.md#resource-logs).

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure AI Bot Service data reference](monitor-bot-service-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables).

### Sample Kusto queries

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the Azure Bot menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current bot resource. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other resources or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/scope) for details.

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your bot resource.

- Logs of Clients to Direct Line channel requests.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName contains "ClientToDirectLine"
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  | limit 100
  ```

- Logs of requests from the Bot to channels.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName contains "BotToChannel"
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  | limit 100
  ```

- Logs of requests from Channels to the bot.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName contains "ChannelToBot"
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  | limit 100
  ```

- Logs of requests from Facebook to Azure AI Bot Service Facebook Channel.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName contains "FacebookToChannel"
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  ```

- Logs of requests from Azure AI Bot Service Facebook Channel to Facebook API.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName contains "ChannelToFacebookAPI"
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  ```

- Logs of requests to send activities from a client to Direct Line channel.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where OperationName == 'SendAnActivity:ClientToDirectLine'
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  ```

- List of logs of unsuccessful requests.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where ResultCode < 200 or ResultCode >= 300
  | sort by TimeGenerated desc
  ```

- Line Chart showing Direct Line channel requests response codes.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | where Channel == "directline"
  | summarize Number_Of_Requests = count() by tostring(ResultCode), bin(TimeGenerated, 5m)
  | render timechart
  ```

- Line Chart showing requests response times/duration per operation.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | summarize DurationMs = avg(DurationMs)  by bin(TimeGenerated, 5m), OperationName
  | render timechart
  ```

- Line Chart showing requests response status codes.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | summarize Number_Of_Requests = count() by tostring(ResultCode), bin(TimeGenerated, 5m)
  | render timechart
  ```

- Pie Chart showing requests response status codes.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | summarize count() by tostring(ResultCode)
  | render piechart
  ```

- Pie Chart showing requests operations.

  ```kusto
  ABSBotRequests
  | summarize count() by tostring(OperationName)
  | render piechart
  ```

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure AI Bot Service data reference](monitor-bot-service-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure AI Bot Service.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
